=head1 NAME

CatalystX::SimpleLogin::Manual - How to use and customise CatalystX::SimpleLogin.

=head2 Tutorial

We're using a sample application here, to make the instructions a little
easier. This assumes that you have Catalyst, Catalyst::Devel,
Template Toolkit, and the Catalyst authentication and session plugins
installed.

    catalyst.pl MyApp
    cd MyApp
    script/myapp_create.pl view HTML TT

Edit lib/MyApp.pm and add CatalystX::SimpleLogin,  Authenticate, and the
Session plugins to the use Catalyst plugin list:

    use Catalyst qw/-Debug
                    ConfigLoader
                    +CatalystX::SimpleLogin
                    Authenticate
                    Session
                    Session::Store::File
                    Session::State::Cookie
                    Static::Simple/;

Add the following config for authentication, including two sample users:

    __PACKAGE__->config(
        'Plugin::Authentication' => {
            default => {
                credential => {
                    class => 'Password',
                    password_field => 'password',
                    password_type => 'clear'
                },
                store => {
                    class => 'Minimal',
                    users => {
                        bob => {
                            password => "bobpw",
                        },
                        william => {
                            password => "billpw",
                        },
                    },
                },
            },
        },
    );

Execute C< script/myapp_server.pl > and, as part of the debug output, you should see:

    [debug] Loaded Chained actions:
    .-------------------------------------+--------------------------------------.
    | Path Spec                           | Private                              |
    +-------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
    | /login                              | /login/login                         |
    | /logout                             | /login/logout                        |
    '-------------------------------------+--------------------------------------'

Go to C< localhost:3000 > and you should see the Catalyst welcome screen. Go to
C< localhost:3000/login > and you should get a login screen containing username and
password text fields, a 'Remember' checkbox, and a 'Login' button. Enter 'bob' and
'bobpw'. You should be logged in and taken to the welcome screen. If you execute
C< localhost:3000/logout > you will be logged out, and should see this in the
debug output (the welcome screen will stay the same).

Now go to C< lib/MyApp/Controller/Root.pm > and remove the lines saying:

    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use parent 'Catalyst::Controller';

and add the following lines:

    use Moose;
    use namespace::autoclean;
    BEGIN { extends 'Catalyst::Controller::ActionRole' }

Now add a new action to C< lib/MyApp/Controller/Root.pm > and include
C< Does('NeedsLogin') > to use the Catalyst ActionRole that is part of SimpleLogin:

    sub hello_user : Local Does('NeedsLogin') {
        my ( $self, $c ) = @_;
        $c->res->body('<h2>Hello, user!</h2>');
    }

Restart the server and you can see the new action. Go to C<< htp://localhost:3000/hello_user >>
and you'll get the 'Hello, user!' page. Now execute C<< http://localhost:3000/logout >> and try
C<< http://localhost:3000/hello_user >> again. You will be presented with a login screen.

You can also add a message, which will be put into the flash key 'error_msg'. Add
the following to the hello_user action:

  : LoginRedirectMessage('Please Login to view this Action')

Now we'll create a Template Toolkit template that can be customized. Create a
C< root/login/login.tt > file with the following lines.

  [% error_msg %]
  [% render_login_form %]

Now edit C< lib/MyApp.pm > and remove the 'RenderAsTTTemplate' trait, and add
'flash_to_stash' to the session config (to allow the error message to be
passed to the next request):

    __PACKAGE__->config(
        'Plugin::Session' => {
            flash_to_stash => 1
        },
        # Other config..
    );

Restart the server and try to view the hello_user page without being logged in.
You should be reredireced to the login page with the error message displayed at
the top.

You can replace C< [% render_login_form %] > with your own html, and customize
it as you please.

    <div class="error">[% error_msg %]</div>
    <form id="login_form" method="post" >
    <fieldset class="main_fieldset">
    <div><label class="label" for="username">Username:
    </label><input type="text" name="username" id="username" value="" />
    </div>

    <div><label class="label" for="password">Password: </label>
    <input type="password" name="password" id="password" value="" />
    </div>

    <div><label class="label" for="remember">Remember: </label>
    <input type="checkbox" name="remember" id="remember" value="1" />
    </div>

    <div><input type="submit" name="submit" id="submit" value="Login" />
    </div>
    </fieldset></form>

Or you can customize it using L<HTML::FormHandler> HTML rendering features, and
the 'login_form_args' config key.

=cut
